Code in this subfolder implements 2D parts of the graphic engine. The engine implements two 2D backends.1. **Direct2D**, for obvious reason it only works on Windows. Trivially simple here in C#, less so in the underlying Vrmac.dll, as Direct2D does not integrate into Direct3D 12, it can only render in D3D 11, so I had to write some code to make sense of what MS calls “[Direct3D 11 on 12](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct3d12/direct3d-11-on-12)”2. **Vrmac Draw** works on both platforms. It's better in some respects, Direct2D is very inefficient, they spam triangles for AA, they render stuff to textures, and they use way too many draw calls. It's worse in other respects however, this is mostly due to a lack of time, e.g. the only implemented brushes are solid color ones. This one is implemented in C#, only the computation-heavy paths operations are in C++, see `iPathGeometry` COM interface. That C++ code uses SIMD intrinsics a lot. For example, transforming 2D points with 3x2 matrix to compute bounding boxes only takes 3 CPU instructions per 2 points combined (i.e. 1.5 instructions/point on average). This is true for both platforms.Both backends expose almost identical API to users of the library, see `iDrawDevice` and `iDrawContext` interfaces. And they use the same high-level approach. I didn’t want to experiment with GPU-based splines. AFAIK the research is not there just yet. I did the same thing D2D is doing — tessellate splines to polylines as a first step, everything down the pipeline is processing polylines, or triangle meshes.The only unfortunate difference, they use different conventions for brush colors. In Vrmac everything is premultiplied alpha, including brush colors, Direct2D however [only uses straight alpha](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct2d/supported-pixel-formats-and-alpha-modes#about-premultiplied-and-straight-alpha-modes) for brushes. Premultiplied alpha is almost always better, that's why 2D devices have that unfortunate `iDrawDevice.premultipliedAlphaBrushes` property.