# Installation## Windows 10On Windows 10 you only need the nuget package, and .NET Core runtime. I have only tested with 2.1 and 2.2, will probably work with newer versions, too.Microsoft did decent job packaging their .NET core for Windows.Download an installer [from their official web site](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core), and very likely it’ll work just fine.If you want to compile apps, you’ll need SDK, not just the runtime.The native binary is only available for 64-bit Windows.Make sure that damn “Prefer 32-bit” checkbox is **not** checked in the properties of your project.It won’t run otherwise, you’ll get a startup exception telling something about not being able to load Vrmac.dll.## Raspberry Pi### .NET CoreMicrosoft did poor job packaging their .NET Core for ARM Linux. I had to come up with something better.[Click this link](https://github.com/Const-me/Vrmac/releases/tag/1.0), download `dotnet-runtime_2.1.18_armhf.deb` file to the Pi, and run this command on the Pi:```sudo dpkg -i ./dotnet-runtime_2.1.18_armhf.deb```This will install .NET Core version 2.1.18 LTS. The sources of that Debian package are in this repository, in `net-core` subfolder. The `package` bash script from that folder compiles the package.### Other Runtime DependenciesIn addition to that, Vrmac Graphics requires some Debian packages which may or may not be installed on your Pi.To install all of them, copy-paste the following to the Linux command-line shell, and run it:```sudo apt-get install -y libegl1 libgles2 libgbm1 libdrm2 libx11-6 libxcb1 libx11-xcb1 libpng16-16 \libfreetype6 libtiff5 libjpeg62-turbo libstdc++6 libc6 libgcc1 fonts-liberation2 fonts-quicksand```All these packages are from the official repository. Presumably, they are supported by Debian maintainers.### Video Driver Setup```sudo raspi-config7    Advanced Options   Configure advanced settingsA8   GL Driver          Enable/Disable experimental desktop GL driverG2   GL (Fake KMS)      OpenGL desktop driver with fake KMS```By default, Linux doesn’t grant you permissions to 3D render things. Here’s a fix:```sudo usermod -a -G render pi```Reboot after all these changes, with `sudo reboot` command.### Running SamplesOnce the above setup is complete, you should be able to run samples with the following command:```dotnet RenderSamples.dll```Vrmac graphics doesn’t care about SSH sessions or X windows.If you’ll run it anyhow on the Pi, and the X server is running, it will create a window on the monitor plugged into the Pi.If no X server is running, will render directly into the physical monitor plugged into Pi, using that lower-level workflow with drm/kms and raw input.If both methods fail, the library should throw some exception with a meaningful error message about that.If you have DSI display, or two HDMI displays, should work in theory but I never tested.The API to select display, resolution and refresh rate is exposed to .NET.It does work on my Pi 4 when a single monitor is a FullHD one plugged into MicroHDMI, but I haven’t tested anything else.ARM Linux doesn’t currently have .NET SDK, just the runtime. To build stuff for Pi4, you’ll need some non-ARM PC which supports the SDK.Windows, OSX or Linux should all work. On Windows, click Build / Publish, in command line that’s `dotnet publish`, then copy output folder to the Pi.Personally, I shared a network drive in Windows 10 PC, and mounted it on the Pi with a long command which starts with `sudo mount -t cifs`