The code in this folder implements MSAA swap chain for 2D rendering.It’s no longer used due to performance issues on Raspberry Pi4. Pi4 supports 4x MSAA, but the performance impact is unacceptably high.Instead, current version of Vrmac Draw implements faster and higher-quality VAA anti-aliasing method.VAA doesn’t rely on post-processing render pass like the rest of them (FXAA, MLAA, SMAA, etc).It doesn’t rely on pre-processing render pass either.Direct2D does just that BTW, it pre-renders individual paths into 512x512 R16\_UINT render target, setting `forcedSampleCount` [field](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/d3d11_1/ns-d3d11_1-cd3d11_rasterizer_desc1) to 16, writes these 16-bit SV_Coverage values there, and reads from that texture on the main rendering pass.Not only it's slow, also not portable, AFAIK there's no `forcedSampleCount` equivalent in GLES 3.0.Instead, VAA achieves higher-quality AA (unlimited samples in theory, 256 samples in practice due to the precision of the output) with a single forward-only rendering pass. It requires no additional textures or buffers.There’re 2 caveats.1. The approach is only applicable to 3D graphics. Possible to reimplement for 3D as well, but (a) will very likely require a geometry shader. At the time of writing, Pi4 doesn’t support them. (b) I’m not sure about the performance. Mesh generation algorithms build non-trivial mesh topologies, and have substantial amount of branching. Not sure GPU is a good fit for code like that. Fortunately, I only needed that thing for 2D.2. It requires substantial amount of mesh pre-processing. These algorithms are implemented in manually-vectorized C++ and run pretty fast. This is true even on Raspberry Pi4, thanks to [NEON](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/simd-isas/neon) extension. On PC I require [SSE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streaming_SIMD_Extensions), all of them up to SSE 4.1, and also [FMA3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FMA_instruction_set). In human language, this means you need a computer from 2014 or newer.